The Joe Rogan experience.
We were getting like major athletes, like major athletes. And, uh,
I remember I interviewed, um, uh,
Chris Wideman and he was fighting, um, uh,
he wasn't fighting the other guy, uh, Anderson Silva.
No, yo Maita. I can't remember who Rockhold.
It might have been when he was fighting Luke Rockwell. I can't remember. Um,
what year? This was about.
2015. Was he the champ? He was the champ.
So the odds are it's either VTO, Lito, Machi.
Vido. It was Vidar. He was fighting VOR. Oh. And, uh,
it was the first time I had like sat down with like, you know,
guys who were trained fighters and the calm,
it's just like a calm and a piece that like, I was trying to put my finger on,
like, what is that calm? And then I realized like, if like I'm in,
I get insecure, you know, but you know, I'm, I'm like got nervousness.
And a lot of that is because I always in a situation, no,
there's prob a probability that I could get up. Yeah.
Where if I walked around and I knew that 99 pull 0.7% of the people I could
up, I'd.
Be calm. Well, Chris Wideman is calm.
Like I would be calm if I was hanging out with 10 year old girls and they were
trying to tell me how the world works and I'd be like, that's cute.
<laugh> yeah. Let me tell you how the world really works. <laugh> yeah.
That's like that. Yeah.
Especially when he was the champ. Yeah. I mean, when he was the champ of all,
when Chris Wideman was coming up and the limitations of Chris Wideman
legitimately are the limitations of the human body,
because his body started to break. He started to,
he had knee problems and neck problems and back problems.
But the limitations of his mind were limitless.
It was there's a lot of these guys like,
and a lot of 'em are wrestlers because I think were wrestlers of the strongest
brains because the strongest minds, the strongest determination,
because that sport is so brutal,
but these great wrestlers who get into fighting like Chris Wideman and Kane
Velazquez was another one.
The limitations of Kalas were the limitations of his body.
Cuz he started getting so shoulder surgery and back surgery and knee surgery.
And then it all started falling apart. But when he was at his peak,
Chris Mo Wideman was a man. Strong J not just,
but just the mind too. It's not, it's not just the body.
His body was surely strong, but his mind was just unbreakable. Right.
He would break guys, you know, and, and Kane was the same way.
Kane was a guy who broke guys. He break because I,
I really firmly believe this to this day, that wrestlers, because there's no,
like I had Jordan burrow was on the other day. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
he's a wrestler, right? Olympic gold medalist, four time world champion,
stud of a human being. And when you talk to him,
you realize like he's just so exceptional in every way.
And one of the reasons why he's so exceptional is because wrestling has no goal
glory. Like the people that get into wrestling,
they do it because it's the pursuit. It's not, it's not like,
uh, Bentley and, uh, mansion and watches and rings and all that. Like the,
the, the, the glory is in victory. It's in the pursuit. And also in victory,
in the most difficult of circumstances,
which is like amateur high level world, class wrestling.
Like those it's so hard. So the guys like Chris Wideman,
the guys like Jordan burrows,
the guys like king Velasquez guys who Excel in wrestling, they there's a,
a mindset that they have have. That's, uh,
it's so interesting to be around them because they're,
they're because they are that calm. Right? They have that, that, there's a,
there's a level that they've reached that very few human beings outside of
wrestlers ever reached.
That's fascinating.
You think that's changing now because they do have an outlet with MMA,
which is great.
Like they can go pro and become rich and kind of famous some of 'em.
But you know, like Jordan burrows doesn't have any interest in, in fighting,
especially his wife doesn't want him to fight. Cause he,
he does make good money. Wrestling just has an ambassador to wrestling,
but I don't think,
I don't think they go fall into the same pitfalls that a lot of the other, uh,
fighters fall into, you know, like a lot of 'em they just, uh, uh, they,
they get into fame and glory and all that.
And Wideman never really got into that. He was just in a smashing people.
Yeah. Smashing yeah. Cobe. Yeah.
Just smashing people like.
Cobe. I'm going smash. Your boy. <laugh> he's the perfect.
Example. Cobes the perfect example. The guy drives a Toyota. Yeah. Okay.
He's worth millions of dollars.
He's the most dominant fighter in any weight class, in the history of,
and he is as calm and as humble as can be while also being incredibly
confident. Yeah. Yeah. And super religious. Yeah. Doesn't drink. Doesn't smoke.
Doesn't party. Doesn't do anything. He's just dedicated to smashing people.
I'm gonna smash your boy.
Right. I'm gonna smash your boy. <laugh> when he said that I come.
I'm gonna smash your voice.
Somebody said to me, that's like Samuel Jackson and pole fiction. You're like,
ah. It's.
Greater because it's not fake. Right. And he did it. Yeah. He,
and he did smash him and he, you know, one of the, the best,
the scariest thing that he ever said, he goes, I want to change his face. Yeah,
yeah, yeah. I want to change his face. Yeah.
Who, how much is the mental bat? Did like Connor when he fought Connor,
it was like opposites going against each other.
Mm-hmm like that ultra ultra humility versus that like, you know,
absolute boastful. Like, do you think Connor knew before? Mm-hmm just no,
like you think he.
Went in, he was gonna win and look, he, he, he won round with KIB.
He won the third round and that's probably the only round that KIB lost in his
entire career.
Like there's an argument that maybe he lost one or two rounds earlier that are
real close, but I mean, he's, he's 29 and oh,
you have to understand how insane that is.
And then you have to understand the weight class he's in,
he's in the 155 pound weight class,
which is arguably the most competitive in the history of the sport. Right.
Cause like the arguments are like 45,
55 and maybe 70 or the most competitive, uh, weight classes I ever.
And he's the, the most dominant guy ever in the most competitive weight class.
Yeah. I mean, he's a monster, he's a beast, man.
You're in that weight class and you know, you gotta fight him. You're like,
yeah. Do you question everything about yourself? Yeah. Do you think.
Wrestler is on to that level? Are, have an advantage in.
MMA a cuz you're just eventually gonna get your hands on a guy. Yeah.
Well that's what he has an advantage in. Yeah. I mean he, when he wrestles guys,
when he grabs them, you could see the look in their face. Like, oh my God,
this is different. It's like a.
Anaconda. Got you.
Just different. Well, look,
look at his last guy that he fought is just engaging. Who's a killer. Right?
Smashes Tony Ferguson, smashes, Etson. Barboza I mean,
he's a beast and a really good wrestler too.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> but when Kabe got a hold of him yeah.
Every time just drags him to the ground and almost submitted him at the end of
the first round and then submitted him in the second round. Well, he.
Said he wanted it submit, he didn't wanna hurt him. Do you think that was true?
That yeah. He said like, I didn't want do it that way.
Cuz his parents were there. <laugh> well,
not just that's some ill to say like I'll just wait to next round.
Do it a little softer. Well, they were friends.
Um,
Justin actually they have the same manager and Justin actually helped him cut
weight earlier in his career. Cuz cutting weight is uh,
I don't know if you ever spent some time in the sauna.
I have. I went, I did some shows in Sweden. Yeah. Yeah. There's.
A, there's a moment in the sauna that comes around like minute, 13,
14, especially if it's like a hot minute. It's a three for me. Yeah.
When you start looking around, you're like,
you look at your wash and you're like, like how do I do this?
I want to get out now. And you don't, you, you don't get out. You stay in.
And so it's like, you need support. And like a lot of times,
like I guys will have guys cut weight with them and they'll come and sit with
you and give you support. Cuz like as much as, uh, as KIB is like his mind is a,
a, a, a, a vault, a, a bank vault.
I mean his mind is impenetrable. Even a man like him will,
will use encouragement from other people and you support and love and friendship
from other people. And Justin helped him cut weight. Wow. And I think they were,
he was, they had a bond because of that.
So when he fought Connor, he wanted, uh, change his face.
He wanted to smash to smash your.
Boy.
<Laugh> with Gaji. He's just like,
I'm gonna beat him and I'm gonna beat him the way I would beat a friend.
It's like, you're beating up your brother. Yeah. Like you go like, you know,
I'm gonna hurt you, but not my brother. So it's gonna like, I'm gonna do it.
So you can, he.
He went to submissions faster than he has in any other fight he's ever had.
Right. God he's that good? He's not good. He almost caught,
he fought with a broken toe too, by the way. Wow. Snapped. Like he took a,
they showed an x-ray of his toe after the fight. He broke his toe in training.
Right. And a lot of guys would've pulled out of that fight.
If you looked at the fight, I watched it yesterday. I actually,
while I was working out, he had his toes taped together. Right. That's it.
That's the brace. Right? That's the cast. Right.
A little piece of tape connecting his toes. Cause when you.
Break your to that's, all you can do right. Is really just tape it.
Up. He's a extraordinary human being and uh, it's his mind. It's his, I mean,
his body obviously is uh, ridiculous too.
But his body is ridiculous because of his yeah. You.
Know, and he just comes from a place that like, you know,
what did Joe DiMaggio say? Like, uh, and so rich,
rich guys can't make the big leagues.
He comes from a place that probably like getting in the octagon is like the
easiest thing he's done in his entire life. I mean there,
those videos of him as a kid, wrestling bears, I mean,
it's like you got, if you gotta get in the rig with him, you're going, like,
how can I grapple better than a bear.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new J episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.